Refactor certain doctests towards either reStructuredText documentation or Python tests (#464)
crate/crate-python: docs/by-example/sqlalchemy/cru.rst

========================================
SQLAlchemy: Create, retrieve, and update
========================================

This section of the documentation, related to CrateDB's SQLAlchemy integration,
focuses on showing specific details when querying, inserting, and updating
records.

It exercises filtering and limiting, inserting and updating with default values,
and updating complex data types with nested Python dictionaries.

.. rubric:: Table of Contents

.. contents::
   :local:

Introduction
============

Import the relevant symbols:

    >>> import sqlalchemy as sa
    >>> from datetime import datetime
    >>> from sqlalchemy.ext.declarative import declarative_base
    >>> from sqlalchemy.orm import sessionmaker
    >>> from sqlalchemy.sql import text
    >>> from crate.client.sqlalchemy.types import ObjectArray

Establish a connection to the database:

    >>> engine = sa.create_engine(f"crate://{crate_host}")
    >>> connection = engine.connect()

Define the ORM schema for the ``Location`` entity:

>     >>> Base = declarative_base(bind=engine)

Author: Thank you, I've diverted this to #483.

    >>> _ = connection.execute("REFRESH TABLE locations")

Inserted location is available:

    >>> location = session.query(Location).filter_by(name='Earth').one()
    >>> location.name
    'Earth'

Retrieve the location from the database:

    >>> session.refresh(location)
    >>> location.name
    'Earth'

> Date should have been set at the insert due to default value via Python method:

Author: Thanks for your attention. I agree, and tried to improve the situation with f36f60f04.

> Date should have been set at the insert due to default value via Python method:

Author: I've also just created #484, to have a closer look.

    >>> type(location.datetime_notz)
    <class 'datetime.datetime'>

The location instance also has other ``date`` and ``datetime`` attributes which
are nullable. Because there is no default value defined in the ORM schema for
them, they are not set when the record is inserted:

    >>> location.nullable_datetime is None
    True

    >>> location.nullable_date is None
    True

.. hidden::

    >>> from datetime import datetime, timedelta
    >>> now = datetime.utcnow()

    >>> (now - location.datetime_tz).seconds < 4
    True

    >>> (now.date() - location.date) == timedelta(0)

>     True

Author: Re. https://github.com/crate/crate-python/pull/464#discussion_r1044547187:

We still need this spot for conducting the integration tests, because we currently have no other place yet, where Python-based SQLAlchemy integration tests are conducted. This may be improved in the future. Anyhow, now those test cases are hidden from the user on the rendered documentation.

Author: I've created a note about this at GH-491.

    >>> type(location.datetime_notz)
    <class 'datetime.datetime'>

The location also has a date and datetime property which both are nullable and
aren't set when the row is inserted as there is no default method:

    >>> location.nullable_datetime is None
    True

    >>> location.nullable_date is None
    True

Update
======

> The datetime and date can be set using a update statement:

Author: ```suggestion
The datetime and date can be set using an update statement:
```

    >>> _ = connection.execute("REFRESH TABLE locations")

Boolean values get set natively:

    >>> location.flag
    True

> Reload the object from the db:

Author: ```suggestion
Reload the object from the database:
```

    >>> _ = connection.execute("REFRESH TABLE locations")

> Test that objects can be used as list too:

Author: ```suggestion
Verify that objects can be used within lists, too:
```
